---
published: true
title: "Unveiling Developers Contributions Behind Code Commits\u003a An Exploratory Study"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Eduardo Aranha", "Roberta Coelho"]
preprint: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Daniel_Costa22/publication/269165310_Unveiling_developers_contributions_behind_code_commits_An_exploratory_study/links/55ff32ef08aeba1d9f8404af.pdf
venue: 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing (SAC 2014) 
rate: NA
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [SAC, 2014, Developers Contribution]
---   

### Abstract 

The process and activities of software development are very dynamic and diverse. For instance,
source code has to be written, tested and revised, e-mails have to be sent, bugs have to be
communicated, managed and fixed. As a consequence, the contributions of the developers are very
diversified. This paper describes an empirical study whose goal was to assess and compare the
contributions of the developers through software repository mining. Two medium-sized projects - an
open source and a commercial project - were analyzed. Overall, 17,490 commits and 10,308 bugs
reports were analyzed. In the first part of our study, we have classified the developers based on
their contribution to the software repository in three groups - core, active and peripheral
developers. After that, we have collected a series of metrics - code contribution, buggy commits and
resolution of priority bugs - for all the developers of the investigated projects. Finally, we have
analyzed the collected metrics for the different developer groups. Our study findings show
significant differences in the contribution provided by the developers groups considering the
open-source and the commercial project.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{da2014unveiling,
  title={Unveiling developers contributions behind code commits: an exploratory study},
  author={da Costa, Daniel Alencar and Kulesza, Uir{\'a} and Aranha, Eduardo and Coelho, Roberta},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing},
  pages={1152--1157},
  year={2014},
  organization={ACM}
}
{% endhighlight %}
