---
published: true
title: An Empirical Study of Delays in the Integration of Addressed Issues 
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Surafel Lemma Abebe", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza and Ahmed E. Hassan"]
preprint: http://sail.cs.queensu.ca/Downloads/ICSM-ICSME2014_AnEmpiricalStudyOfDelaysInTheIntegrationOfAddressedIssues.pdf
venue: 30th International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME 2014)
rate: 40/210 (19%)
award: true
acmaward: false
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [ICSME, 2014, Integration Delay]
---   

### Abstract 

Predicting the time required to address an issue (i.e., a feature, bug fix or
enhancement) has long been the goal of many software engineering researchers. However, after an
issue has been addressed, it must be integrated into an official release for it to become visible to
users. In theory, issues should be integrated into releases immediately after they are addressed.
Yet in practice, the integration of an addressed issue might be delayed. For instance, an addressed
issue might be delayed in order to assess the impact that it may have on the system as a whole.
While one can often speculate, it is not always clear why some addressed issues are integrated
immediately, while others are delayed. In this paper, we empirically study the delayed integration
of 20,995 addressed issues from the ArgoUML, Eclipse, and Firefox projects. Our results indicate
that: (i) despite being addressed well before the release date, the integration of 34% (ArgoUML) to
98% (Firefox) of addressed issues were delayed by one or more releases; (ii) using information
derived from the addressed issues, we are able to accurately predict the release in which an
addressed issue will be integrated, achieving an ROC area of above 0.72; and (iii) the workload of
integrators is the most important factor in our integration delay models. Our results indicate that
integration can introduce non-negligible delays that prevent addressed issues from being delivered
to users. Thus, solely focusing on the time to address an issue is not enough to truly assess how
long an issue will visibly survive in a software system. 

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@inproceedings{alencar2014icsme,
	Author={Daniel Alencar da Costa and Surafel Lemma Abebe and Shane McIntosh and Uir\'a Kulesza and Ahmed E. Hassan},
	Title = {An Empirical Study of Delays in the Integration of Addressed Issues},
	Booktitle = {Proc. of the 30th Int'l Conf. on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME)},
	Pages = {281-290},
	Year = {2014}
}
{% endhighlight %}
