---
published: true
title: "Assessing and Evolving a Domain Specific Language for Formalizing Software Engineering Experiments\u003a An Empirical Study"
layout: post
authors: ["Mar\u00edlia Freire", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Edurardo Aranha", "Gustavo Nery", "Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Andreas Jedlitschka", "Edmilson Campos", "Silvia Acu\u00f1a and Marta G\u00f3mez"]
preprint: http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Silvia_Acuna/publication/274739964_Assessing_and_Evolving_a_Domain_Specific_Language_for_Formalizing_Software_Engineering_Experiments_An_Empirical_Study/links/55532d4808aeaaff3bf02d62.pdf
venue: International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (IJSEKE 2014)
rate: NA
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [IJSEKE, 2014, Controlled Experiments]
---   

### Abstract 

The research about the formalization and conduction of controlled experiments in software
engineering has reported important insights and guidelines for their organization. However, the
computational support to formalize and execute controlled experiments still requires deeper
investigation. In this context, this paper presents an empirical study that evaluates a domain
specific language (DSL) proposed to formalize controlled experiments in software engineering.  The
language is part of a model-driven approach that allows the generation of executable workflows for
the experiment participants, according to the statistical design of the experiment. Our study
involves the modeling of 16 software engineering experiments to analyze the completeness and
expressiveness of the investigated DSL when specifying different controlled experiments. The results
highlight several limitations of the DSL that affect the formalization and execution of experiments.
These outcomes were used to extend and improve the evaluated DSL. Finally, the improved version of
the language was used to model the same experiments in order to illustrate the benefits of the
proposed improvements.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{freire2014assessing,
  title={Assessing and Evolving a Domain Specific Language for Formalizing Software Engineering Experiments: An Empirical Study},
  author={Freire, Mar{\'\i}lia and Kulesza, Uir{\'a} and Aranha, Eduardo and Nery, Gustavo and Costa, Daniel and Jedlitschka, Andreas and Campos, Edmilson and Acu{\~n}a, Silvia T and G{\'o}mez, Marta N},
  journal={International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering},
  volume={24},
  number={10},
  pages={1509--1531},
  year={2014},
  publisher={World Scientific}
}
{% endhighlight %}

