---
published: true
title: "Studying the Impact of Switching to a Rapid Release Cycle on Integration Delay of Addressed Issues - An Empirical Study of the Mozilla Firefox Project"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza and Ahmed E. Hassan"] 
preprint: http://sail.cs.queensu.ca/Downloads/2016_StudyingTheImpactOfSwitchingToARapidReleaseCycleOnIntegrationDelayOfAddressedIssues-AnEmpiricalStudyOfTheMozillaFirefoxProject.pdf
venue: The 13th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR)
rate: NA
award: false
acmaward: true
category: [Conference Papers]
tags: [MSR, 2016, Empirical Study]

---   

### Abstract 

The release frequency of software projects has increased in recent years.
Adopters of so-called rapid release cycles claim that they can deliver addressed
issues (i.e., bugs, enhancements, and new features) to users more quickly.
However, there is little empirical evidence to support these claims. In fact, in
our prior work, we found that code integration phases may introduce delays in
rapidly releasing software - 98% of addressed issues in the rapidly releasing
Firefox project had their integration delayed by at least one release. To better
understand the impact that rapid release cycles have on the integration delay of
addressed issues, we perform a comparative study of traditional and rapid
release cycles. Through an empirical study of 72,114 issue reports from the
Firefox system, we observe that, surprisingly, addressed issues take a median of
50 days longer to be integrated in rapid Firefox releases than the traditional
ones. To investigate the factors that are related to integration delay in
traditional and rapid release cycles, we train regression models that explain if
an addressed issue will have its integration delayed or not. Our explanatory
models achieve good discrimination (ROC areas of 0.81-0.83) and calibration
scores (Brier scores of 0.05-0.16). Deeper analysis of our explanatory models
indicates that traditional releases prioritize the integration of backlog
issues, while rapid releases prioritize issues that were addressed during the
current release cycle. Our results suggest that rapid release cycles may not be
a silver bullet for the rapid delivery of addressed issues to users.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{dacosta2016release,
  title={Studying the Impact of Switching to a Rapid Release Cycle on Integration Delay of Addressed Issues - An Empirical Study of the Mozilla Firefox Project},
  author={da Costa, Daniel A. and McIntosh, Shane and Kulesza, Uir{\'a} and Hassan, Ahmed E.},
  journal={Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR) },
  year={2016}
}
{% endhighlight %}

