---
published: true
title: "A Framework for Evaluating the Results of the SZZ Approach for Identifying Bug-Introducing Changes"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Weiyi Shang", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Roberta Coelho and Ahmed E. Hassan"] 
preprint: https://github.com/danielcalencar/danielcalencar.github.io/raw/master/papers/TSE-Danieletal-2016.pdf 
venue: Journal of Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE)
rate: NA
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [TSE, 2016, SZZ]

---   

### Abstract 

The approach proposed by Sliwerski, Zimmermann, and Zeller (SZZ) for identifying
bug-introducing changes is at the foundation of several research areas within
the software engineering discipline. Despite the foundational role of SZZ,
little effort has been made to evaluate its results. Such an evaluation is a
challenging task because the ground truth is not readily available. By
acknowledging such challenges, we propose a framework to evaluate the results of
alternative SZZ implementations. The framework evaluates the following criteria:
(1) the earliest bug appearance, (2) the future impact of changes, and (3) the
realism of bug introduction.  We use the proposed framework to evaluate five SZZ
implementations using data from ten open source projects. We find that
previously proposed improvements to SZZ tend to inflate the number of
incorrectly identified bug-introducing changes. We also find that a single
bug-introducing change may be blamed for introducing hundreds of future bugs.
Furthermore, we find that SZZ implementations report that at least 46% of the
bugs are caused by bug-introducing changes that are years apart from one
another. Such results suggest that current SZZ implementations still lack
mechanisms to accurately identify bug-introducing changes. Our proposed
framework provides a systematic mean for evaluating the data that is generated
by a given SZZ implementation.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{dacosta2016release,
  title={A Framework for Evaluating the Results of the SZZ Approach for Identifying Bug-Introducing Changes},
  author={da Costa, Daniel A. and McIntosh, Shane and Shang, Weiyi, Kulesza, Uir{\'a} and and Coelho, Roberta and Hassan, Ahmed E.},
  journal={Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE)},
  year={2016}
}
{% endhighlight %}

