---
published: true
title: "An Empirical Study of the Integration Time of Fixed Issues"
layout: post
authors: ["Daniel Alencar da Costa", "Shane McIntosh", "Uir\u00e1 Kulesza", "Ahmed E. Hassan and Surafel Lemma Abebe"]
preprint: https://github.com/danielcalencar/danielcalencar.github.io/raw/master/papers/ICSME14-EMSE_Danieletal.pdf 
venue: Empirical Software Engineering (EMSE) 
award: false
acmaward: false
category: [Journal Papers]
tags: [EMSE, 2017, Integration Delay]
---   

### Abstract 

Predicting the required time to fix an issue (i.e., a new feature, bug fix, or
enhancement) has long been the goal of many software engineering researchers.
However, after an issue has been fixed, it must be integrated into an official
release to become visible to users. In theory, issues should be quickly
integrated into releases after they are fixed. However, in practice, the
integration of a fixed issue might be prevented in one or more releases before
reaching users. For example, a fixed issue might be prevented from integration
in order to assess the impact that this fixed issue may have on the system as a
whole. While one can often speculate, it is not always clear why some fixed
issues are integrated immediately, while others are prevented from integration.
In this paper, we empirically study the integration of 20,995 fixed issues from
the ArgoUML, Eclipse, and Firefox projects. Our results indicate that: (i)
despite being fixed well before the release date, the integration of 34% to 60\%
of fixed issues in projects with traditional release cycle (the Eclipse and
ArgoUML projects), and 98% of fixed issues in a project with a rapid release
cycle (the Firefox project) was prevented in one or more releases; (ii) using
information that we derive from fixed issues, our models are able to accurately
predict the release in which a fixed issue will be integrated, achieving Areas
Under the Curve (AUC) values of 0.62 to 0.93; and (iii) heuristics that estimate
the effort that the team invests to fix issues is one of the most influential
factors in our models. Furthermore, we fit models to study fixed issues that
suffer from a long integration time. Such models, (iv) obtain AUC values of 0.82
to 0.96 and (v) derive much of their explanatory power from metrics that are
related to the release cycle. Finally, we train regression models to study
integration time in terms of number of days. Our models achieve R-squared values of
0.39 to 0.65, and indicate that the time at which an issue is fixed and the
resolver of the issue have a large impact on the number of days that a fixed
issue requires for integration. Our results indicate that, in addition to the
backlog of issues that need to be fixed, the backlog of issues that need to be
released introduces a software development overhead, which may lead to a longer
integration time. Therefore, in addition to studying the triaging and fixing
stages of the issue lifecycle, the integration stage should also be the target
of future research and tooling efforts in order to reduce the time-to-delivery
of fixed issues.

### Bibtex 

{% highlight tex %}
@article{dacosta2017emse,
  Author = {Daniel Alencar da Costa and Shane McIntosh and Uir\'a Kulesza and Ahmed E. Hassan and Surafel Lemma Abebe},
  Title = {An Empirical Study of the Integration Time of Fixed Issues},
  Year = {2017},
  Journal = {Empirical Software Engineering},
  Pages = {toAppear}
}
{% endhighlight %}


